chore: run e2e tests on demand (#441)
awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-typescript: CONTRIBUTING.md

  - `npm run docs-buildDockerImage` OR `docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material ./docs/`
  - `npm run docs-runLocalDocker` OR `docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material`

### Tests

> Tests are under `tests` folder of each modules and splitted into two categories: Unit tests and e2e tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests are under `tests` folder of each modules and split into two categories: unit tests and e2e tests.
```

> This split happen thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run each group separately or all together thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups).
```

> Unit tests, under `tests/unit` folder are standard jest tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unit tests, under `tests/unit` folder are standard [Jest](https://jestjs.io) tests.
```

> Integration tests, under `tests/e2e` folder, will test the module features by deploying lambdas into your AWS Account (thanks to CDK lib for typescript) and use aws sdk to invoke them and assert on expected behavior. All of it orchestrated using standard Jest framework. Since it's deploying infrastructure, it will need an AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration tests under `tests/e2e` folder on the other hand will test the module features by deploying Lambdas functions into your AWS Account. Infrastructure deployment is possible thanks to CDK lib for Typescript and `aws sdk` is used to invoke the functions and assert on the expected behavior. All of this is orchestrated using the same Jest framework used for the unit tests.

Since running integration tests will deploy AWS resources you will need an AWS account and might incur in some costs which should be covered by the [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all). If you already don't have an AWS Account follow [these instructions to create one](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).

When contributing to this repository these integration tests are run by the maintainers before merging a PR.
```

**Unit testing**

**Write**

> As mentioned before, tests are splitted thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in your unit test file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, tests are split into groups thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore each test needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in the header of your unit test file:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

/**
 * Tests metrics
 *
 * @group unit/<YOUR CATEGORY>/<YOUR SUB CATEGORY>
 */
```

**Run**

 `npm run test`

You can run selective tests by restricting the group to the one you want. For instance `npx jest --group=unit/metrics/all`.

**e2e tests**

**Write**

> As mentioned before, unit and e2e tests are splitted thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in your unit test file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous section, tests are split into groups thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore each test needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in the header of your unit test file:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

  - `npm run docs-buildDockerImage` OR `docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material ./docs/`
  - `npm run docs-runLocalDocker` OR `docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material`

### Tests

Tests are under `tests` folder of each modules and split into two categories: unit tests and e2e tests.

You can run each group separately or all together thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups).

Unit tests, under `tests/unit` folder are standard [Jest](https://jestjs.io) tests.

> Integration tests under `tests/e2e` folder on the other hand will test the module features by deploying Lambdas functions into your AWS Account. Infrastructure deployment is possible thanks to CDK lib for Typescript and `aws sdk` is used to invoke the functions and assert on the expected behavior. All of this is orchestrated using the same Jest framework used for the unit tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
End-to-end tests, under `tests/e2e` folder, will test the module features by deploying Lambdas functions into your AWS Account. We use CDK lib for Typescript for creating infrastructure, and `aws sdk` for invoking the functions and assert on the expected behaviors. All steps are also executed by Jest.
```

Reviewer 2: Change to make it more succinct.  

Let's use the term e2e tests rather than integration testing to avoid ambiguity.

> Since running integration tests will deploy AWS resources you will need an AWS account and might incur in some costs which should be covered by the [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all). If you already don't have an AWS Account follow [these instructions to create one](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running end-to-end tests will deploy AWS resources. You will need an AWS account and the tests might incur costs. The cost from **some services** are covered by the [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all) but not all of them. If you already don't have an AWS Account follow [these instructions to create one](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).
```

We don't know how this will be extended in the future. Some features might be outside of free tier. (and free-tier condition may change in the future). So I make it more explicit here that it **may** cost.

> When contributing to this repository these integration tests are run by the maintainers before merging a PR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When contributing to this repository, these end-to-end tests are run by the maintainers before merging a PR.
```

**e2e tests**

**Write**

As mentioned in the previous section, tests are split into groups thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore each test needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in the header of your unit test file:

```typescript
/**
 * Tests data lake catalog
 *
 * @group e2e/<YOUR CATEGORY>/<YOUR SUB CATEGORY>
 */
```

and leverage `aws-cdk` package to programatically deploy and destroy stacks. See `metrics/tests/e2e/decorator.test.ts` as an example.

**Run**

To run unit tests you can either use projen task
* `npm run test:e2e` which will only run jest integ tests
* or jest directly `npx jest --group=e2e`

You can run selective tests by restricting the group to the one you want. For instance `npx jest --group=e2e/other/example`.

Two important env variable can be used:
* `AWS_PROFILE` to use the right credentials
* `DISABLE_TEARDOWN` if you don't want your stack to be destroyed at the end of the test (useful in dev mode when iterating over your code).

Example: `DISABLE_TEARDOWN=true AWS_PROFILE=ara npx jest --group=integ/other/example`

**Automate**

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

You can run the end-to-end tests automatically on your forked project by following these step.
```

1. Create AWS Role
  As mention earlier we are leveraging CDK to deploy and clean resources on AWS. Therefore to run those tests through github actions you will need to grant specific permissions to your workflow. To do so you can leverage [@pahud/cdk-github-oidc](https://constructs.dev/packages/@pahud/cdk-github-oidc) construct which setup the right resources to leverage [Github OpenID Connect](https://github.blog/changelog/2021-10-27-github-actions-secure-cloud-deployments-with-openid-connect/) mechanism.
1. Add your new role into your Github fork secrets under `AWS_ROLE_ARN_TO_ASSUME`.
1. Run manually `run-e2e-tests` workflow.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> :Warning: **Don't automatically run end-to-end tests on branch push or PRs**. A malicious attacker can submit code to mine Bitcoins on your AWS account. Ideally, use a blank account without any important workload/data, and limit `AWS_ROLE_ARN_TO_ASSUME` permission to least minimum privilege.
```

  - `npm run docs-buildDockerImage` OR `docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material ./docs/`
  - `npm run docs-runLocalDocker` OR `docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material`

### Tests

> Tests are under `tests` folder of each modules and split into two categories: unit tests and e2e tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tests are under `tests` folder of each modules and split into two categories: unit tests and e2e (end-to-end) tests.
```

Nit: both me and you know what this means, but it would be good to clarify to make it inclusive for folks with different level of proficiency

Reviewer 3: I do see it explained down in the page though, so that's nice!

You can run each group separately or all together thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups).

Unit tests, under `tests/unit` folder are standard [Jest](https://jestjs.io) tests.

> End-to-end tests, under `tests/e2e` folder, will test the module features by deploying Lambdas functions into your AWS Account. We use CDK lib for Typescript for creating infrastructure, and `aws sdk` for invoking the functions and assert on the expected behaviors. All steps are also executed by Jest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
End-to-end tests, under `tests/e2e` folder, will test the module features by deploying AWS Lambda functions into your AWS Account. We use CDK lib for Typescript for creating infrastructure, and `aws sdk` for invoking the functions and assert on the expected behaviors. All steps are also executed by Jest.
```

> Running end-to-end tests will deploy AWS resources. You will need an AWS account and the tests might incur costs. The cost from **some services** are covered by the [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all) but not all of them. If you don't have an AWS Account follow [these instructions to create one](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).

Reviewer 3: We probably should warn customers here that by running e2e tests in their own account they might incur into charges.

When contributing to this repository, these end-to-end tests are run by the maintainers before merging a PR.

> **Unit testing**

Reviewer 3: Nit for consistency:

```suggestion
**Unit tests**
```

**Write**

As mentioned before, tests are split into groups thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore each test needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in the header of your unit test file:

```typescript
/**
 * Tests metrics
 *
 * @group unit/<YOUR CATEGORY>/<YOUR SUB CATEGORY>
 */
```

**Run**

>  `npm run test`

Reviewer 3: For consistency with the e2e test, can we change this command to be everywhere:
```
npm run test:unit
```

So that in the future we can:
- create 1 line command that runs all the tests in sequence:
`npm run test` will execute the unit tests and then the e2e tests. If we have new kind of tests we want to add to the sequence, we can do it by adding them here.
I used this similar pattern in past teams as a customer and makes things easy.
- add new types of tests with related name if we need (`npm run test:acceptance`)

You can run selective tests by restricting the group to the one you want. For instance `npx jest --group=unit/metrics/all`.

**e2e tests**

**Write**

As mentioned in the previous section, tests are split into groups thanks to [jest-runner-groups](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-groups) and therefore each test needs to be tagged properly by adding the following comments in the header of your unit test file:

```typescript
/**
 * Tests data lake catalog
 *
 * @group e2e/<YOUR CATEGORY>/<YOUR SUB CATEGORY>
 */
```

> and leverage `aws-cdk` package to programatically deploy and destroy stacks. See `metrics/tests/e2e/decorator.test.ts` as an example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and leverage [aws-cdk](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/getting_started.html) package to programatically deploy and destroy stacks. See `metrics/tests/e2e/decorator.test.ts` as an example.
```

**Run**

To run unit tests you can either use projen task
* `npm run test:e2e` which will only run jest integ tests
* or jest directly `npx jest --group=e2e`

You can run selective tests by restricting the group to the one you want. For instance `npx jest --group=e2e/other/example`.

> Two important env variable can be used:

Reviewer: I think this is addressed at L125:
```
Example: `DISABLE_TEARDOWN=true AWS_PROFILE=dev-account npx jest --group=e2e/metrics/decorator`
```

* `AWS_PROFILE` to use the right credentials
* `DISABLE_TEARDOWN` if you don't want your stack to be destroyed at the end of the test (useful in dev mode when iterating over your code).

Example: `DISABLE_TEARDOWN=true AWS_PROFILE=ara npx jest --group=integ/other/example`

**Automate**

> You can run the end-to-end tests automatically on your forked project by following these step.

Reviewer 3: Nit
```suggestion
You can run the end-to-end tests automatically on your forked project by following these steps:
```

    * [Grant least privilege](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#grant-least-privilege) to the credentials used in GitHub Actions workflows.  Grant only the permissions required to perform the actions in your GitHub Actions workflows.
    * [Monitor the activity](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#keep-a-log) of the credentials used in GitHub Actions workflows.

    For an example of how to create a role in CDK, you can look at [@pahud/cdk-github-oidc](https://constructs.dev/packages/@pahud/cdk-github-oidc) construct.

    More information about:  

    - [Github OpenID Connect](https://github.blog/changelog/2021-10-27-github-actions-secure-cloud-deployments-with-openid-connect/
    - ["Configure AWS Credentials" Action For GitHub Actions](https://github.com/aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials/)
1. Add your new role into your [Github fork secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) with name  `AWS_ROLE_ARN_TO_ASSUME`.
1. In your forked repository, go to the "Actions" tabs, select the `run-e2e-tests` workflow.

> 1. In the run-e2e-tests workflow page, select "Run workflow" and run it on the desired branch.

Reviewer 3: Nit: steps numbers are all "1."

> 1. In the run-e2e-tests workflow page, select "Run workflow" and run it on the desired branch.

Reviewer 3: Nit: steps numbers are all "1."

Reviewer: They rendered correctly by GitHub preview & [according to spec](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#ordered-lists) it's not required for them to be in order:
>  To create an ordered list, add line items with numbers followed by periods. The numbers don’t have to be in numerical order, but the list should start with the number one.

But for those who are reading the source I agree that it was confusing, changed it in [973a9d5](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-typescript/pull/441/commits/973a9d5e439e9b0706775177bd65a5d97f9ced3f).
